VOUCH — CRITICAL HACKATHON READINESS FIX

We have completed a brutally honest technical/judge audit of the current VOUCH application.

The concept and product design are strong, but the audit identified THREE CRITICAL issues that must be fixed before submission:

A server-side authorization bypass
Strands/Bedrock is not yet genuinely implemented
The Judges Demo does not currently prove the real end-to-end lifecycle

This is now a technical credibility and judging-readiness pass.

IMPORTANT

Do NOT redesign the website.

Do NOT change the Knight.

Do NOT work on the horse/animation.

Do NOT add decorative features.

Do NOT rewrite working systems unnecessarily.

Preserve the existing VOUCH visual design and product structure.

Focus exclusively on making the underlying system real, secure, demonstrable, and technically credible.

PRIORITY 1 — ELIMINATE THE AUTHORIZATION BYPASS

The audit identified a serious issue in the conflict-resolution flow.

The run endpoint currently accepts a client-controlled value similar to:

const resolved = Boolean(req.body?.resolved);

and the policy engine can subsequently allow a conflicting action when resolved === true.

This violates VOUCH's central promise:

The client/agent cannot simply declare that a conflict has been resolved.

Required fix

Remove all trust in a client-supplied resolved boolean for authorization.

A client request must NEVER be sufficient to establish that a conflict was resolved.

Create a server-side resolution/authorization record tied to the exact action.

The server-side record should contain, at minimum:

session ID
action ID
scenario ID where applicable
evidence version or evidence identifiers
resolution decision
timestamp
resulting authorization state

The /resolve operation must create/update this server-side state.

The subsequent action authorization must verify that a valid server-side resolution exists for:

THIS SESSION + THIS ACTION + THIS EVIDENCE STATE

Do not allow:

{ resolved: true }

to bypass the requirement.

If the action has not been properly resolved by the server-side workflow:

BLOCK it.

Prevent replay/stale authorization

A resolution should not authorize a different action or an action based on newer/different evidence.

If the action ID or evidence version changes, the previous authorization must no longer be considered valid.

Bind approval/resolution to the specific action record.

Tests

Add regression tests proving:

Test 1

Client sends:

resolved: true

without a server-side resolution.

Expected:

BLOCKED / unauthorized

Test 2

Valid /resolve creates the server-side resolution.

Expected:

authorization can proceed

Test 3

Resolution for Action A cannot authorize Action B.

Expected:

BLOCKED

Test 4

Resolution based on stale evidence cannot authorize an action after the evidence version changes.

Expected:

BLOCKED / re-evaluation required

Test 5

A normal safe action continues to work.

Do not break existing behavior.

PRIORITY 2 — IMPLEMENT A REAL STRANDS + AMAZON BEDROCK PATH

This is the most important AWS-specific improvement.

The current implementation must NOT merely label deterministic logic as:

Strands Agents
Amazon Bedrock
AWS mode

A judge must be able to inspect the repository and find an actual Strands agent and an actual Bedrock model invocation.

Target architecture

Implement the architecture:

User Request

↓

Strands Agent + Amazon Bedrock

↓

Agent recommendation / reasoning

↓

VOUCH deterministic authority engine

↓

ALLOW / APPROVAL_REQUIRED / BLOCKED

↓

Controlled Action

↓

Verification

↓

Trust Update

The critical design principle is:

The Strands agent can recommend an action. It cannot authorize its own consequential action.

VOUCH remains the deterministic authorization boundary.

Strands agent

Use the actual Strands Agents SDK.

Create a clean adapter/module responsible for the real agent path.

The agent should receive the request and relevant evidence/context.

Give the agent typed tools appropriate to the VOUCH workflow.

For example, tools may allow the agent to:

inspect available evidence
evaluate/request additional evidence
formulate an action recommendation
explain its recommendation

The agent should produce a structured recommendation containing information such as:

proposed action
reasoning/summary
relevant evidence references
confidence if supported
requested authority/action type

Do NOT allow model output to directly determine:

ALLOW

APPROVAL_REQUIRED

or

BLOCKED.

Those decisions remain in the deterministic VOUCH authorization layer.

Bedrock

Use an actual Amazon Bedrock model through the Strands integration.

Do not fake the response.

Do not merely change a provider label.

When AWS mode is configured:

create the real Strands agent
invoke the configured Bedrock model
capture the actual model recommendation
pass that recommendation into VOUCH's deterministic authority engine
return the resulting authorization decision
preserve enough trace information for the demo/audit experience

Use environment variables/secrets for AWS configuration.

Do not hard-code credentials.

DEMO MODE MUST REMAIN AVAILABLE

VOUCH must continue to work without AWS credentials.

Create two explicitly distinct modes:

DEMO MODE

Deterministic local evaluator.

Display clearly:

DEMO — Deterministic VOUCH Evaluator

AWS LIVE MODE

Real Strands + Bedrock.

Only display:

AWS LIVE — Strands + Amazon Bedrock

after a real successful model invocation.

Do NOT display "AWS LIVE" merely because environment variables exist.

A successful Bedrock/Strands invocation must establish live status.

If the live invocation fails:

do not pretend it succeeded
capture the error safely
fall back to the deterministic demo only if appropriate
clearly communicate that the live agent is unavailable
IMPORTANT SECURITY BOUNDARY

The following distinction must remain obvious in code:

Agent

What should we do?

VOUCH authority engine

Are you allowed to do it?

Action layer

Execute only what VOUCH authorized.

Verification

Did the expected outcome actually occur?

Trust

What should this agent be allowed to do next?

Do not collapse these layers.

This separation is one of VOUCH's strongest technical differentiators.

PRIORITY 3 — MAKE THE JUDGES DEMO REAL

The current Judges experience visually describes the lifecycle, but the actual guided demo does not reliably execute the complete advertised conflict → block → resolve → authorize → verify → trust story.

Fix this.

The Judges Demo should be driven by actual API responses/state.

Do NOT simply animate labels and then call a separate safe scenario.

TARGET JUDGES DEMO

Create one primary scenario specifically optimized for judging.

The sequence should be:

STEP 1 — REQUEST

A consequential action is proposed.

Example:

A refund/action is requested.

The Strands agent receives the request and evidence.

The agent recommends the action.

Display clearly:

AGENT RECOMMENDATION

STEP 2 — EVIDENCE

Show the evidence relevant to the decision.

Include the evidence that creates a conflict or uncertainty.

Make it obvious that VOUCH is not blindly trusting the agent.

STEP 3 — RISK

VOUCH evaluates the action and identifies the conflict/risk.

Show:

RISK DETECTED

STEP 4 — AUTHORITY

VOUCH evaluates whether the agent has sufficient authority.

The result must be:

BLOCKED

or:

APPROVAL REQUIRED

depending on the scenario.

The important thing is that the judge sees:

The agent recommended the action, but the agent did NOT get to authorize itself.

STEP 5 — HUMAN RESOLUTION

If human resolution is required:

Show the actual human approval/resolution interaction.

The user makes the decision.

That decision must create the server-side resolution/authorization record.

Do NOT use a client boolean as proof.

STEP 6 — RE-EVALUATION

VOUCH evaluates the exact action again using the updated server-side state.

Display the transition clearly:

BLOCKED → AUTHORIZED

The judge should be able to understand why the decision changed.

STEP 7 — ACTION

Execute the controlled action.

Be honest that this is a controlled demonstration.

If the action is simulated, label it:

CONTROLLED ACTION SIMULATOR — NO EXTERNAL SYSTEM MUTATION

Show the simulated before/after state.

STEP 8 — VERIFICATION

Run actual VOUCH verification against the expected and resulting state.

Show:

EXPECTED

vs.

ACTUAL

Then:

VERIFIED

STEP 9 — TRUST

Update the trust state.

Make the important concept visually obvious:

Trust is not just a number. Trust changes authority.

If appropriate, show the resulting autonomy level.

ADD THE "TRUST HAS CONSEQUENCES" MOMENT

The strongest demonstration should show that verification affects future authority.

After a verification failure scenario:

Show:

Trust: 89 → 74

and:

Autonomy: T3 → T2

Then attempt another action that previously could have been autonomous.

VOUCH should now return:

APPROVAL REQUIRED

instead of autonomous authorization.

This proves:

Trust → Authority → Behavior

rather than merely displaying a trust score.

If the current state machine makes this difficult, implement the smallest clean change necessary.

Do not create a second parallel trust system.

AUDIT / PROVENANCE

When each important decision occurs, record enough information to explain why.

Audit events should reference:

action ID
session ID
evidence IDs/references
policy/decision inputs
agent recommendation
authorization result
human resolution if applicable
verification result
trust change
autonomy change
timestamp

Do not claim cryptographic signing unless it is actually implemented.

Do not invent provenance.

The audit should make it possible to reconstruct:

What did the agent recommend?

What evidence existed?

Why did VOUCH allow/block it?

Did a human intervene?

What happened afterward?

UI HONESTY

Do a careful audit of all technical labels.

If the UI currently says:

STRANDS AGENTS

or:

AMAZON BEDROCK

make sure those labels correspond to actual implementation.

Do not remove the AWS story merely because live mode is optional.

Instead clearly distinguish:

DEMO

from:

AWS LIVE

The UI should never imply a live AWS call occurred when it did not.

DO NOT OVERBUILD

Do NOT add:

unnecessary databases
unnecessary microservices
complicated infrastructure
fake integrations
fake observability
fake customer data
fake metrics
fake signatures
unnecessary UI screens

The goal is not maximum code.

The goal is:

A technically credible, working demonstration of a real agent operating inside a real authorization boundary.

TESTING REQUIREMENTS

After implementation:

Run all existing tests.
Add regression tests for the authorization bypass.
Add tests proving stale/incorrect resolutions cannot authorize actions.
Test safe action.
Test conflicting evidence.
Test human approval.
Test verification success.
Test verification failure.
Test trust reduction.
Test autonomy reduction.
Test subsequent permission change.
Test deterministic demo mode without AWS.
Test live Strands/Bedrock path when AWS credentials are configured.
Verify failed AWS invocation does not masquerade as success.
Run TypeScript checks.
Run production build.
Verify all routes.
Verify browser console has no errors.
FINAL ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA

Do not consider this task complete unless all three are true:

1. SECURITY

A client cannot bypass VOUCH's authorization boundary by submitting:

resolved: true

2. AWS / AGENTIC CREDIBILITY

The repository contains an actual Strands Agents implementation that can invoke an actual Amazon Bedrock model when configured.

3. JUDGE DEMO

The Judges Demo is driven by the actual backend lifecycle and demonstrates:

Agent recommendation → Evidence → Risk → VOUCH authority decision → Human decision when required → Action → Verification → Trust → Changed future authority

FINAL REPORT

At the end, report:

What changed

Concise list.

What is now genuinely real

Separate actual functionality from controlled demo simulation.

AWS status

Clearly state whether real Strands + Bedrock was successfully tested.

Security status

Confirm the resolved: true bypass is closed.

Demo status

Confirm the Judges Demo runs the real lifecycle.

Tests

Report test count and results.

Remaining limitations

Be completely honest.

Do not claim anything was implemented if it was not.

Do not stop at analysis or mockups.

Implement the three critical fixes and leave the existing VOUCH application working.